class Employee{
	private int id;
	private String name;
	private String designation;
	..............
	..............
}


interface Serializer<T>{
	byte[] serialize(String topic,T t)
}

The default deserializer used by kafka-console-consumer is StringDeserializer.

To create a serializer , we need to implement Serializer interface
To create a deserializer , we need to implement Deserializer interface

interface DeSerializer<T>{
	T deserialize(String topic,byte[] array)
}


Custom Partitioner:

designation		partition

Developer		 0
Accountant		 1
Architect		 2
IT-Admin		 3
Any other 		 4

When altering a topic,
the number of partitions can be increased but can't be decreased
the replication factor can't be modified

offset:

Each message in a partition is assigned an unique sequential id called offset.
The offset starts from 0.

The offset if of type long.
So the maximum value for an offset is 2^63-1.

default retention time for  a message is 1 week.

In kafka , each message is called a log.

Kafka maintains till which offset of a partition it has delivered to consumer group.

Current-Offset:

The next offset which will be delivered to a consumer group.
Current offset is maintained for each consumer group.



Log-end-Offset:
The next offset to which a message will be published in the partition.
Log-end-offset is maintained at the partition level and for the consumer group level.


GROUP           TOPIC           PARTITION  CURRENT-OFFSET  LOG-END-OFFSET  LAG             CONSUMER-ID     HOST            
group-1         emp-topic       1          10              10              0 

The messages are published to partition 1 of emp-topic till offset number 9.
The next message will be published to offset 10. This is what is LOG-END-OFFSET.

Among these messages, the consumer group group-1 has consumed till offset number 9 in partition 1.
The next offset that should be consumed by group-1 from partition 1 is 10. This is what is CURRENT-OFFSET.

When a consumer-group is newly registered, it assumes that its current-offset is same as log-end-offset.
For an existing group, the current offset is only till how much it has consumed. The unconsumed messages
are treated as lag.

If the newly registered group should consume all the old messages, the following property should be set.

ConsumerConfig.AUTO_OFFSET_RESET_CONFIG----------------earliest




